## 2. Explain TLS, PKI, certificate, public key, private key, and signature.
* TLS: Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a cryptographic protocol that protects Internet communications.
* PKI: A public key infrastructure (PKI) is a system for the creation, storage, and distribution of digital certificates which are used to verify that a particular public key belongs to a certain entity.
* certificate: Public key, information about the owner, signed by CA
* public key: Asymmetric encryption key that shared openly.
* private key: Asymmetric encryption key that kept secure.
* signature: encript the information with private key.


## 3. list all http status codes that related to authentication and authorization failures.
* 401 Unauthorized,403 Forbidden

## 4. Compare authentication and authorization?
* Authentication: who are you
* Authorization: what are you allowed to do

## 5. What is HTTP Session?
* HTTP sessions is an industry standard feature that allows Web servers to maintain user identity and to store user-specific data during multiple request/response interactions between a client application and a Web application.

## 6. What is Cookie?
* Cookies are text files with small pieces of data that storied by browser

## 7. What is the difference between Session and Cookie?
* Session is store on server side, while cookie is store on client side.

## 8. How do we use session and cookie to keep user information across the the application?
* store session ID in cookie and get session when user request.

## 9. What is JWT?
JSON Web Token: JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

## 10. What is the spring security filter?
* A component in the Spring Security framework that processes HTTP requests and responses to enforce security rules.
* It has a series of filters that apply security policies.

## 11. Explain how JWT works
1. The issuer of the JWT creates a new JWT object and sets the claims that it wants to include in the token.
2. The issuer signs the JWT object using a secret key or a public/private key pair.
3. The resulting JWT is a compact, URL-safe string that can be transmitted over the network.
4. The receiver of the JWT verifies the signature of the JWT using the secret key or the public key.
5. If the signature is valid, the receiver can trust the claims in the JWT.

## 12. Explain how do we store sensitive user information such as password and credit card number in DB?
* password: hash
* credit card number: encryption, since we might need to use it later.

## 13. Compare UserDetailService, AuthenticationProvider, AuthenticationManager, AuthenticationFilter?(把这几个名字看熟悉也行)
### UserDetailsService
- **Purpose:** Loads user-specific data.
- **Usage:** Used to look up user information during authentication. Typically, this involves fetching the user’s information from a database.

### AuthenticationProvider
- **Purpose:** Represents a component responsible for authenticating a user.
- **Usage:** Often used to provide different mechanisms of authentication (e.g., LDAP, database, in-memory).

### AuthenticationManager
- **Purpose:** the main strategy interface for authentication.
- **Usage:** Orchestrates the authentication process by delegating to one or more AuthenticationProviders.

### AuthenticationFilter
- **Purpose:** Intercepts requests and performs authentication.
- **Usage:** Extracts the authentication details from the request and passes them to the AuthenticationManager for validation.

## 14. What is the disadvantage of Session? how to overcome the disadvantage?
### Disadvantages of Session
* Scalability : use distributed session.
* Security: Use secure session management practices like regenerating session IDs after login, using secure cookies, and implementing HTTPS
* Overhead: Implement session expiration policies

## 15. how to get value from application.properties in Spring security?
``` java
@Value("${security.jwt.secret}")
private String jwtSecret;
```

## 16. What is the role of configure(HttpSecurity http) and configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth)?
* configure(HttpSecurity http): is method is used to configure security settings related to HTTP requests, such as URL patterns, access rules, and security filters. It is primarily used to define which endpoints are secured, the type of authentication required, and the security features enabled.
* configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth): This method is used to configure authentication providers, which are responsible for verifying user credentials. This can include setting up in-memory authentication, JDBC authentication, LDAP authentication, or custom authentication providers.

## 17. What is Spring security authentication and authorization?
* Authentication: Authentication is how we verify the identity of who is trying to access a particular resource. A common way to authenticate users is by requiring the user to enter a username and password. Once authentication is performed we know the identity and can perform authorization.
* Authorization: Determines the access rights of an authenticated user.
