# HW21
2. What is the checked exception and unchecked exception in Java, could you  give one example?
Checked exceptions are exceptions that are checked at compile-time. Must use catch or throws.
```java
// IOException, which is thrown when an input or output operation fails or is interrupted.
public class CheckedExceptionExample {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            readFile("example.txt");
        } catch (IOException e) {
            System.err.println("An IOException was caught: " + e.getMessage());
        }
    }

    public static void readFile(String fileName) throws IOException {
        BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new FileReader(fileName));
        String line;
        while ((line = reader.readLine()) != null) {
            System.out.println(line);
        }
        reader.close();
    }
}
```
Unchecked exceptions are exceptions that are not checked at compile-time. These exceptions are subclasses of RuntimeException.
```java
// NullPointerException
if (order != null && order.getPrice())
public Order {
  private Date date;
  private Payment payment;
}
if (order != null && order.getPayment() != null && order.getPayment().getPric()) {
}
if (order != null) {
  //or Order order = orderDao.getOrder();
  return order;
} else { 
    try {
        return orderDao.findOrderById(orderId);
    } catch (OrderNotFoundException e) {
        logger.Error("Order # not found");
        throw new OrderNotFoundException("...");
    } finally {
    //clean up
    } 
}
```

3. Can there be multiple finally blocks?
No.
4. When both catch and finally return values,what will be the final result?
The finnaly returned value.
5. What is Runtime/unchecked exception? what is Compile/Checked Exception?
* Runtime (Unchecked) Exceptions:
- Not checked at compile-time.
- Typically indicate programming errors.
- Examples: NullPointerException, ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, ArithmeticException.
* Compile-Time (Checked) Exceptions:
- Checked at compile-time.
- Represent conditions that a program should anticipate and handle.
- Examples: IOException, SQLException, ClassNotFoundException. 
6. What is the difference between throw and throws?
* throw:
- Used to explicitly throw an exception.
- Creates an instance of an exception class.
- Used within a method.
- Example: throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid argument");
* throws:
- Used in the method signature to declare that a method may throw one or more exceptions.
- Does not throw an exception itself but indicates the possibility of exceptions being thrown.
- Used in method declarations.
- Example: public void methodName() throws IOException { ... }
7. Run the below three pieces codes, Noticed the printed exceptions. why do we put the Null/Runtime exception before Exception ?
```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int a = 0;
        int b = 3
        String s = null;
        try {
            System.out.println(b / a);
            System.out.println(s.equals("aa"));
            throw new RuntimeException();
        } catch (ArithmeticException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (NullPointerException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (RuntimeException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.getMessage();
        }
        System.out.println("End ...");
    }
}
```
In this code, an ArithmeticException is thrown first because of the division by zero (b / a). 
The corresponding catch block for ArithmeticException will catch and handle this exception, so the code inside that catch block will execute, and the subsequent lines inside the try block won't be executed.
```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int a = 0;
        int b = 3
        String s = null;
        try {
            // System.out.println(b / a);
            System.out.println(s.equals("aa"));
            throw new RuntimeException();
        } catch (ArithmeticException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
            } catch (NullPointerException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (RuntimeException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.getMessage();
        }
        System.out.println("End ...");
    }
}
```
The NullPointerException is thrown when trying to call s.equals("aa") on a null string. The corresponding catch block for NullPointerException will catch and handle this exception.
```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int a = 0;
        int b = 3
        String s = null;
        try {
            // System.out.println(b / a);
            // System.out.println(s.equals("aa"));
            throw new RuntimeException();
        } catch (ArithmeticException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (NullPointerException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (RuntimeException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.getMessage();
        }
        System.out.println("End ...");
    }
}
```
RuntimeException is explicitly thrown. The corresponding catch block for RuntimeException will catch and handle this exception.
In summary, always catch specific exceptions before more general exceptions to ensure that the specific ones are handled first. Placing a general exception first will cause a compile-time error because the more specific catch blocks will become unreachable.

7. What is optional? why do you use it? write an optional example.
 Optional is a container object that may or may not contain a non-null value.
 * It helps in avoiding explicit null checks and prevents potential NullPointerExceptions.
 * It provides a more expressive and functional approach to handling values that might be absent.
 ```java
 Optional<String> optionalWithValue = Optional.of("Hello, World!");
        
 Optional<String> optionalEmpty = Optional.empty();

 Optional<String> optionalNullable = Optional.ofNullable(null);
 ```

8. Why finally always be executed?
The finally block is designed to execute regardless of whether an exception occurs or the try block completes normally, making it perfect for cleanup tasks, which is essential for maintaining application stability and preventing resource leaks.
Commonly used to release resources like file handles, network connections, or database connections.
> imagine you opened a file, get an exception, then throwed or returned, but never closed. that's the reason why finally always be executed.

9. Practice collection problems here:https://github.com/TAIsRich/chuwa-eij-tutorial/tree/main/02-java-core/src/main/java/com/chuwa/exercise/collection

10. What are the types of design patterns in Java ?
* Creational Design Patterns:

These patterns provide ways to create objects while hiding the creation logic, rather than instantiating objects directly using the new operator. This gives the program more flexibility in deciding which objects need to be created for a given use case.
* Structural Design Patterns:

These patterns deal with object composition or the organization of classes and objects. The concept of inheritance is used to compose interfaces and define ways to compose objects to obtain new functionalities.
* Behavioral Design Patterns:

These patterns are specifically concerned with communication between objects. They help define how objects interact and communicate with each other.

11. What are the SOLID Principles ?
* Single Responsibility Principle (SRP): a class should only have one job or responsibility.
* Open/Closed Principle (OCP): Software entities (classes, modules, functions, etc.) should be open for extension but closed for modification.
* Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP): Objects of a superclass should be replaceable with objects of its subclasses without affecting the correctness of the program.
* Interface Segregation Principle (ISP): Clients should not be forced to depend upon interfaces that they do not use.
* Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP): High-level modules should not depend on low-level modules. 

12. How can you achieve thread-safe singleton patterns in Java ?
Achieving a thread-safe singleton pattern in Java involves ensuring that the singleton instance is created in a way that prevents multiple threads from creating multiple instances of the singleton class. 
```java
public class Singleton {
    private static final Singleton instance = new Singleton();

    private Singleton() {
        // private constructor
    }

    public static Singleton getInstance() {
        return instance;
    }
}
```

13. What do you understand by the Open-Closed Principle (OCP) ?
Software entities should be open for extension but closed for modification.
This can be achieved by using interfaces or abstract classes and implementing the new functionality through inheritance or composition instead of changing the current class.

14. Liskov’s substitution principle states that if class B is a subtype of class A, then object of type A may be substituted with any object of type B. What does this actually mean? (from OA ) choose your answer.

[x] It means that if the object of type A can do something, the object of type B could also be able to perform the same thing
[ ] It means that all the objects of type A  could execute all the methods present in its subtype B
[ ] It means if a method is present in classA, it should also be present in class B so that the object of type B could substitute object of type A.
[ ] It means that for the class B to inherit classA, objects of type B and objects of type A must be same.

15. Watch the design pattern video, and type the code, submit it to MavenProject folder
singleton: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Np4y1z7BU?p=22
Factory: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Np4y1z7BU?p=35&vd_source=310561eab1216a27f7accf859bf7f6 d9
Builder: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Np4y1z7BU?p=50&vd_source=310561eab1216a27f7accf859bf7f6 d9
Publisher_Subscriber: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Np4y1z7BU?p=114&vd_source=310561eab1216a27f 7accf859bf7f6d9