# hw15
1. Explain the following concepts:
   1. Docker daemon
        >  The Docker daemon is the background service running on the host that manages building, running, and distributing Docker containers. The daemon is the process that handles requests sent to it by the Docker client commands, such as `docker run`, `docker build`, and so forth. It takes care of the heavy lifting of downloading images, building containers, managing them, and networking them with each other and the outside world.
   2. Docker host
        > The Docker host refers to a physical or virtual machine that runs the Docker daemon and thereby hosts containers. Each Docker host provides a Docker environment where all Docker containers and services execute. It can be your local machine, a VM in the cloud, or any machine that supports running the Docker daemon.
   3. Docker Registry
        > A Docker registry is a storage and content delivery system, holding named Docker images, available in different tagged versions. Users interact with a registry by using Docker push and pull commands.
   4. Image/Image Tag
        > A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package that includes everything needed to run a piece of software, including the code, a runtime, libraries, environment variables, and configuration files. Images are used to create Docker containers.  

        > An image tag is a mutable label attached to an image within a Docker registry, used to identify different versions of the same image. Tags are convenient for version control, e.g., `ubuntu:18.04` where ubuntu is the image name and `18.04` is the tag indicating the specific version.
   5. Container Volume
        > A container volume is used to store persistent data generated by and used by Docker containers. data stored in volumes is organized in a way that allows data to persist and be shared among containers.
   6. Docker Namespace
        > Docker uses namespaces to provide isolation between containers. A namespace is essentially a layer of isolation that can make processes, network interfaces, users, and filesystem mounts visible only within that namespace. This means that containers running on the same host can each have their own isolated networks, users, or file systems. Docker utilizes various namespaces like the PID namespace for process isolation, the NET namespace for network isolation, etc.
2. Dockerize your lastest homework project.
   1. `mvn clean package`
   2. add Dockerfile
   3. `docker build -t myapp:latest .`
   4. `docker run -p 8080:8080 myapp:latest`
3. Save and build it.
4. If your application depends on more than one docker base image, please make above as a docker compose execution.
   1. create a `docker-compose.yml` file that defines both application and the MySQL service
   2. `docker-compose up --build`
5. Try mapping host file path to contain's file path, or vice versa.
6. Test and verify if your app's functionalities remain same after